# Using Spotipy, K-Means Clustering and Plotly to Analyse My Personal Spotify Music Library
<p align="justify">Spotify, the largest on-demand music service in the world, has a history of pushing technological boundaries and using big data, artificial intelligence and machine learning to drive success. Although it's offering is music, Spotify is a data-driven company and it uses the data in every part of the organization to drive decisions. It proudly offers over 50 million ad-free tracks to its 130 million Spotify Premium subscribers for £9.99 a month, with every stream learning more about their users. The company now has a market cap of $35 billion and from 2014 to late 2019, Spotify spent hundreds of millions of dollars acquiring data science consulting firms, music intelligence agencies, personalization and recommendation feature technology, and an artificial intelligence to strengthen their data centric offering. As the service continues to acquire data points, it’s using that information to train the algorithms and machines to listen to music and extrapolate insights that impact its business and the experience of listeners. This project uses Spotipy, Spotify’s API, to access my music library and analyze trends in listening behavior over time. It takes a detailed look into how a tracks audio features impact what I listen to and when I listen to it and provides some findings in regards to my favorite artists, albums and songs. The project utilizes PCA in order to reduce the dimensions of the audio feature list before running a K-Means model in order to classify and create custom genres from my most played tracks. It also compares my personal music taste to the Global Top 50 Spotify playlist in order to compare my likings to a viral playlist.</p>
